.TH MAKE-DEBIRF "1" "March 2007" "make-debirf 0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
make-debirf \- build an initrd to boot a full Debian system entirely from RAM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B make-debirf [options] profile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBmake-debirf\fP is a utility to build a debirf system.  A debirf
system is a kernel and initramfs that can be passed to a machine at
boot time to load a complete Debian system entirely into RAM.
\fBmake-debirf\fP takes as input the path to a debirf profile (see
\fBPROFILES\fP).  \fBmake-debirf\fP then generates a debirf initramfs
and a kernel image.  The lovely pair can be put into the boot
partition of your machine in case of emergency, burnt onto an .iso,
served over the net via PXE, etc.
.PP
\fBmake-debirf\fP will try to pick the most up-to-date kernel for the
suite you are installing (versions 2.6 only), with the arch determined
by the kernel running on the host build system.
.PP
The debirf system is outlined at:
.PP
   http://cmrg.fifthhorseman.net/wiki/debirf
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
this help message
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-check-vars\fR
check variables before make
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-new\fR
create new root, even if old one exists
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-overwrite\fR
debootstrap on top of old root if it exists
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-skip\fR
skip debootstrap step altogether if old root exists
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-root-build\fR
use real chroot to build instead of fakechroot (requires superuser
privileges or CAP_SYS_CHROOT)
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-no-warning\fR
skip superuser warning
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-initrd-only\fR
remake initramfs from existing root (skip debootstrap and module
stages)
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-kernel-deb=KERNEL\fR
install KERNEL .deb, instead of default kernel
.PD
.SH PROFILES
.PP
A debirf profile is a directory containing a debirf.conf config file
and a modules sub-directory (see \fBMODULES\fP).
.PD
.SH MODULES
.PP
\fBModules\fP are used to configure the debirf system, and can be used
to extend the capabilities of debirf.  Modules are bash shell scripts
that are executed in alpha-numeric order by \fBrun-parts\fP in a
chroot in the debirf root during the module stage of the debirf build.
The module stage is right after the debirf debootstrap stage, and
right before the initramfs archive is created.  All of the shell
variables defined in the \fIdebirf.conf\fP file are available to the
modules.
.PP
\fBNOTE:\fP Some modules are more important to the proper functioning
of debirf than others, and the ordering of modules is important.  Some
modules may depend on certain other modules having already been, or
not yet been, run.  For instance, the module that cleans the debirf
apt cache ("z1_clean_root") should be the last module run at the end
of the module stage.
.PD
.SH FUNCTIONS
.PP
A set of pre-defined bash shell functions are available to the modules to
fasciliate configuring the debirf system:
.PD 1
.TP
.B debirf_exec <command>
Execute <command> within debirf root (\fBDEBIRF_ROOT\fP) with chroot.
.TP
.B msg <message>
Output a message to standard out during the build process.
.TP
.B failure <message> <exit-code>
Cause make-debirf script to fail with <exit-code>, and <message> to stderr.
.TP
.B debirf_info_sh <message>
Write one line of sh code to the \fIdebirf.info\fP file on the debirf root.
.TP
.B debirf_info_comment <message>
Write one line of comment to the \fIdebirf.info\fP file on the debirf root.
.RE
.PD
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The following environment variables are used by make-debirf:
.PD 1
.TP
.B DEBIRF_LABEL
debirf label (default: debirf)
.TP
.B DEBIRF_BUILDD
where to build the debirf (default: ./)
.TP
.B DEBIRF_ROOT
the debirf root, used by modules (default: $DEBIRF_BUILDD/root)
.TP
.B DEBIRF_MIRROR
Debian mirror (default: http://mirrors.kernel.org/debian)
.TP
.B DEBIRF_DISTRO
debirf build distribution (default: lenny)
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 1
.TP
debirf.conf
Debirf profile configuration file.  Usually contains values for the
various debirf environment variables.
.TP
$DEBIRF_ROOT/etc/debirf/debirf.info
File that stores various information about the debirf build.  This is a
bash-sourceable file.
.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Jameson Rollins and Daniel Kahn Gillmor.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <debirf@fifthhorseman.net>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2007 Jameson Rollins and Daniel Kahn Gillmor
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of
the GNU General Public License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR build-debirf-kernel (1),
.BR debootstrap (8),
.BR fakechroot (1)
